add HCP for Z (Editing/rewriting in process) (#5647)
open-cluster-management/rhacm-docs: clusters/hosted_control_planes/hosted-bm-agents-ibmz.adoc

[#hosted-bare-metal-adding-agents-ibmz]
= Adding IBM Z agents to the InfraEnv resource (Technology Preview)

> 

Reviewer: We definitely need a short description here.

Reviewer: Command format should include `<proper-style-syntax>`

> - Boot zKVM and zVM with the downloaded PXE images from the 'InfraEnv' resource. Wait for the Agents to get created on the management cluster. At startup, the host communicates with the Assisted Service and registers as an agent in the same namespace as the 'InfraEnv' resource. 

Reviewer: Is this a step? Not sure I understand what is going on in the beginning of this topic?

Reviewer: When we give the user a command to run with lots of variables, we need to tell them what to replace. Do we need all of this in the command on line 9?

- For KVM on IBM Z, perform the boot by running the following command:

> +

Reviewer: space here

Reviewer: This command I have questions about; needs to be cleaned up and explained.

----
virt-install   --name "<vm_name>"   --autostart   --ram=16384   --cpu host   --vcpus=4   --location "<path_to_kernel_initrd_image>,kernel=kernel.img,initrd=initrd.img"   --disk <qcow_image_path>   --network network:macvtap-net,mac=<mac_address>   --graphics none   --noautoconsole   --wait=-1   --extra-args "rd.neednet=1 nameserver=<nameserver>   coreos.live.rootfs_url=http://<http_server>/rootfs.img random.trust_cpu=on rd.luks.options=discard ignition.firstboot ignition.platform.id=metal console=tty1 console=ttyS1,115200n8 coreos.inst.persistent-kargs=console=tty1 console=ttyS1,115200n8"
----  
- For zVM, perform the boot using the following procedure:

. Update the paramfile to add 'rootfs url', 'net type' and disk type. 

> Following is the sample command for 'vswitch' network with fcp singlepath/ dasd disk:

Reviewer: what is meant by _fcp singlepath/ dasd disk_?

Reviewer 2: FCP and DASD are disk types on IBM Z machines. Not sure what is meant with `singlepath`
vswitch is written as follows: VSwitch

+
----
rd.neednet=1 console=ttysclp0   coreos.live.rootfs_url=<rootfs_url> ip=<IP for guest vm>::<nameserver>:255.255.255.0::<network adaptor>:none nameserver=<nameserver> zfcp.allow_lun_scan=0  rd.znet=qeth,<network adaptor range>,layer2=1 rd.<zfcp/dasd>=<storage> random.trust_cpu=on rd.luks.options=discard ignition.firstboot ignition.platform.id=metal console=tty1 console=ttyS1,115200n8 coreos.inst.persistent-kargs="console=tty1 console=ttyS1,115200n8"
----  

Following is the sample command for 'OSA' & 'Hipersocket' network with fcp singlepath/dasd disk:

+
----
rd.neednet=1 console=ttysclp0   coreos.live.rootfs_url=<rootfs_url> ip=<IP for guest vm>::<nameserver>:255.255.255.0::<network adaptor>:none nameserver=<nameserver> rd.znet=qeth,<network adaptor range>,layer2=1 rd.<zfcp/dasd>=<storage> random.trust_cpu=on rd.luks.options=discard ignition.firstboot ignition.platform.id=metal console=tty1 console=ttyS1,115200n8 coreos.inst.persistent-kargs="console=tty1 console=ttyS1,115200n8"
----

Following is the sample command for 'ROCE' network with fcp singlepath/ dasdc disk:
+

> ----

Reviewer: format issue

rd.neednet=1 console=ttysclp0         coreos.live.rootfs_url=<rootfs_url> ip=<IP for guest vm>::<nameserver>:255.255.255.0 nameserver=<nameserver> rd.<zfcp/dasd>=<storage> random.trust_cpu=on rd.luks.options=discard ignition.firstboot ignition.platform.id=metal console=tty1 console=ttyS1,115200n8 coreos.inst.persistent-kargs="console=tty1 console=ttyS1,115200n8" 
----  

. Punch 'initrd' ,  kernel images and paramfile to guest VM by running the following commands:

+
----

> vmur pun -r -u m1321006 -N kernel.img $INSTALLERKERNELLOCATION/<image name>

Reviewer 3: vmur pun -r -u <guest machine> -N kernel.img $INSTALLERKERNELLOCATION/<image name>. ==>remove the name of guest machine

> vmur pun -r -u m1321006 -N generic.parm $PARMFILELOCATION/paramfilename

Reviewer 3: same as above

> vmur pun -r -u m1321006 -N initrd.img $INSTALLERINITRAMFSLOCATION/<image name>

Reviewer 3: same as above

----  
. Run the following command from the guest VM console to perform the boot.
+
----
cp ipl c
----

- To list the agents and some of their properties, enter the following command:
+
----
oc -n ${HOSTED_CONTROL_PLANE_NAMESPACE} get agents
----

Example output follows:

+
----
NAME                                   CLUSTER   APPROVED   ROLE          STAGE
50c23cda-cedc-9bbd-bcf1-9b3a5c75804d
                        auto-assign
5e498cd3-542c-e54f-0c58-ed43e28b568a
                        auto-assign

----

After each agent is created, you can optionally set the agent ID 'installation_disk_id' and hostname in the specification and approve the agent by entering the following commands:
+
----

> oc -n ${HOSTED_CONTROL_PLANE_NAMESPACE} patch agent 50c23cda-cedc-9bbd-bcf1-9b3a5c75804d -p '{"spec":{"installation_disk_id":"/dev/sda","approved":true,"hostname":"worker-zvm-0.hostedn.example.com"}}' --type merge

Reviewer 3: oc -n ${HOSTED_CONTROL_PLANE_NAMESPACE} patch agent 50c23cda-cedc-9bbd-bcf1-9b3a5c75804d -p '{"spec":{"installation_disk_id":"/dev/sda","approved":true,"hostname":"worker-zvm-0.example.krnl.es"}}' --type merge. ==> The hostname can be different but change basedomain to krnl.es to avoid confusion

+
----
oc -n ${HOSTED_CONTROL_PLANE_NAMESPACE} get agents
----

Example output follows:

+
----
NAME                                   CLUSTER   APPROVED   ROLE          STAGE
50c23cda-cedc-9bbd-bcf1-9b3a5c75804d             true       auto-assign
5e498cd3-542c-e54f-0c58-ed43e28b568a             true       auto-assign
----

- For zVM, an additional step is required to edit the agent patched in the last step and update installer 'args' under 'spec' section as follows:

For network types as vswitch/ OSA & Hipersocket:
+
----
installerArgs: '[ "--append-karg", "rd.neednet=1", "--append-karg", "ip=<Guest vm ip>::<nameserver>:255.255.255.0:<hostname>:<network adaptor>:none", "--append-karg", "nameserver=<nameserver>", "--append-karg", "rd.znet=qeth,<network adaptor range>,layer2=1", "--append-karg", "rd.<storage type>=<storage>" ]'
----

For network type as ROCE:

+
----
installerArgs: '[ "--append-karg", "rd.neednet=1", "--append-karg", "ip=<Guest vm ip>::<nameserver>:255.255.255.0:<hostname>","--append-karg", "nameserver=<nameserver>", "--append-karg", "rd.znet=qeth,<network adaptor range>,layer2=1","--append-karg", "rd.<storage type>=<storage>" ]'

> ----

Reviewer: I am a bit disoriented in this file and not sure of the process. Let's revisit this and create 1. a solid description that tells the user what they are doing and why, and then clear steps, removing assumptions from abbreviations.

[#hosted-bare-metal-adding-agents-ibmz]
= Adding IBM Z agents to the InfraEnv resource (Technology Preview)

> Boot KVM on IBM Z and z/VM with the downloaded PXE images from the 'InfraEnv' resource. After the Agents are created, the host communicates with the Assisted Service and registers in the same namespace as the 'InfraEnv' resource on the management cluster.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Start KVM on IBM Z and IBM z/VM with the downloaded PXE images from the `InfraEnv` resource. After the Agents are created, the host communicates with the Assisted Service and registers in the same namespace as the `InfraEnv` resource on the management cluster.
```
Do we need to spell out "KVM"? I'm not sure what it refers to, but perhaps it's a term that most IBM Z users are familiar with. Just wanted to check.

Author: Checked with team -z/VM and KVM are pretty familiar terms apparently. So, dont need to expand

> - For KVM on IBM Z, perform the boot by running the following command:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- For KVM on IBM Z, run the following command:
```
IBM Style Word Usage lists both "perform" and "boot" as terms to avoid, if possible.

+

> [source,terminal]

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
[source,bash]
```

----
virt-install \
   --name "<vm_name>" \
   --autostart \
   --ram=16384 \
   --cpu host \
   --vcpus=4 \
   --location "<path_to_kernel_initrd_image>,kernel=kernel.img,initrd=initrd.img" \
   --disk <qcow_image_path> \
   --network network:macvtap-net,mac=<mac_address> \
   --graphics none \
   --noautoconsole \
   --wait=-1 \
   --extra-args "rd.neednet=1 nameserver=<nameserver>   coreos.live.rootfs_url=http://<http_server>/rootfs.img random.trust_cpu=on rd.luks.options=discard ignition.firstboot ignition.platform.id=metal console=tty1 console=ttyS1,115200n8 coreos.inst.persistent-kargs=console=tty1 console=ttyS1,115200n8"
----  

> - For IBM z/VM, perform the boot by using the following procedure:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- For IBM z/VM, start KVM by completing the following procedure:
```

Author: Done

> . Update the paramfile to add `rootfs url`, `net type` and `disk type`. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
. Update the paramfile to add the `rootfs url`, `net type` and `disk type` values. 
```

> Following is the sample command for 'VSwitch' network with fcp singlepath/ dasd disk:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
+
The following example shows a  sample command for the `VSwitch` network with a `fcp singlepath/ dasd` disk:
```

+

> [source,terminal]

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
[source,bash]
```

----
rd.neednet=1 console=ttysclp0   coreos.live.rootfs_url=<rootfs_url> ip=<IP for guest vm>::<nameserver>:255.255.255.0::<network adaptor>:none nameserver=<nameserver> zfcp.allow_lun_scan=0  rd.znet=qeth,<network adaptor range>,layer2=1 rd.<zfcp/dasd>=<storage> random.trust_cpu=on rd.luks.options=discard ignition.firstboot ignition.platform.id=metal console=tty1 console=ttyS1,115200n8 coreos.inst.persistent-kargs="console=tty1 console=ttyS1,115200n8"
----  

> Following is the sample command for 'OSA' & 'Hipersocket' network with fcp singlepath/dasd disk:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
+
The following example is a sample command for the `OSA` and `Hipersocket` networks with a `fcp singlepath/dasd` disk:
```

+

> [source,terminal]

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
[source,bash]
```

----
rd.neednet=1 console=ttysclp0   coreos.live.rootfs_url=<rootfs_url> ip=<IP for guest vm>::<nameserver>:255.255.255.0::<network adaptor>:none nameserver=<nameserver> rd.znet=qeth,<network adaptor range>,layer2=1 rd.<zfcp/dasd>=<storage> random.trust_cpu=on rd.luks.options=discard ignition.firstboot ignition.platform.id=metal console=tty1 console=ttyS1,115200n8 coreos.inst.persistent-kargs="console=tty1 console=ttyS1,115200n8"
----

> Following is the sample command for 'ROCE' network with fcp singlepath/ dasdc disk:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
+
The following example is a sample command for the `ROCE` network with a `fcp singlepath/ dasdc` disk:
```

+

> [source,terminal]

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
[source,bash]
```

----
rd.neednet=1 console=ttysclp0         coreos.live.rootfs_url=<rootfs_url> ip=<IP for guest vm>::<nameserver>:255.255.255.0 nameserver=<nameserver> rd.<zfcp/dasd>=<storage> random.trust_cpu=on rd.luks.options=discard ignition.firstboot ignition.platform.id=metal console=tty1 console=ttyS1,115200n8 coreos.inst.persistent-kargs="console=tty1 console=ttyS1,115200n8" 
----  

> . Punch 'initrd',  kernel images and paramfile to guest VM by running following commands:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
. Punch `initrd`,  kernel images, and the paramfile to the guest VM by running the following commands:
```
IBM Style warns against using terms that might be associated with violence, such as "punch". Can we change this line to something like this? "Move `initrd`, kernel images, and the paramfile to the guest VM by running the following commands:"

+

> [source,terminal]

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
[source,bash]
```

----
vmur pun -r -u -N kernel.img $INSTALLERKERNELLOCATION/<image name>
vmur pun -r -u -N generic.parm $PARMFILELOCATION/paramfilename
vmur pun -r -u -N initrd.img $INSTALLERINITRAMFSLOCATION/<image name>

> 

Reviewer 4: Is line 57 left blank intentionally?

----  

> . Run the following command from the guest VM console to perform the boot.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
. Run the following command from the guest VM console to start KVM:
```

+

> [source,terminal]

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
[source,bash]
```

----
cp ipl c
----

- To list the agents and their properties, enter the following command:

> +

Reviewer 4: Add a blank line above the + to ensure proper formatting.

> [source,terminal]

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
[source,bash]
```

----

> oc -n ${HOSTED_CONTROL_PLANE_NAMESPACE} get agents

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
oc -n <hosted_control_plane_namespace> get agents
```

----

> .Example output

Reviewer 4: Add a blank line between the `----` on line 71 and `.Example output` on line 72 to ensure proper formatting.

+

> [source,terminal]

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
[source,bash]
```

----
NAME    CLUSTER APPROVED    ROLE    STAGE
50c23cda-cedc-9bbd-bcf1-9b3a5c75804d    auto-assign
5e498cd3-542c-e54f-0c58-ed43e28b568a    auto-assign

> 

Reviewer 4: Is line 79 left blank intentionally?

----

> 

Reviewer 4: Something strange is happening with the formatting starting around line 82. I'm happy to troubleshoot it after we can get some of the other comments resolved, as it will be easier for me to investigate then.

Optionally, you can set the agent ID `installation_disk_id` and hostname in the specification. 

. Run the following command to approve the agent:

> +

Reviewer 4: Add a blank line between the step on line 84 and the + on line 85.

> [source,terminal]

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
[source,bash]
```

----

> oc -n ${HOSTED_CONTROL_PLANE_NAMESPACE} patch agent 50c23cda-cedc-9bbd-bcf1-9b3a5c75804d -p '{"spec":{"installation_disk_id":"/dev/sda","approved":true,"hostname":"worker-zvm-0.hostedn.example.com"}}' --type merge

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
oc -n <hosted_control_plane_namespace> patch agent 50c23cda-cedc-9bbd-bcf1-9b3a5c75804d -p '{"spec":{"installation_disk_id":"/dev/sda","approved":true,"hostname":"worker-zvm-0.hostedn.example.com"}}' --type merge
```

----

. Run the following command to verify that the agents are approved:

> +

Reviewer 4: Add a blank line between lines 91 and 92 to ensure proper formatting.

> [source,terminal]

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
[source,bash]
```

----

> oc -n ${HOSTED_CONTROL_PLANE_NAMESPACE} get agents

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
oc -n <hosted_control_plane_namespace> get agents
```

----

> .Example output

Reviewer 4: Add a blank line between lines 96 and 97 to ensure proper formatting.

+

> [source,terminal]

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
[source,bash]
```

----
NAME                                            CLUSTER     APPROVED   ROLE          STAGE
50c23cda-cedc-9bbd-bcf1-9b3a5c75804d             true       auto-assign
5e498cd3-542c-e54f-0c58-ed43e28b568a             true       auto-assign
----

> . For IBM z/VM, an additional step is required to edit the agent patched in the last step and update installer 'args' under 'spec' section as follows:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
. For IBM z/VM, edit the agent that you patched in the previous step and update the `installerArgs` setting in the `spec` section as follows:
```

> - For network types as VSwitch/ OSA & Hipersocket:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- For network types such as `VSwitch`, `OSA`, and `Hipersocket`, enter the following command:
```

+

> [source,terminal]

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
[source,bash]
```

----
installerArgs: '[ "--append-karg", "rd.neednet=1", "--append-karg", "ip=<Guest vm ip>::<nameserver>:255.255.255.0:<hostname>:<network adaptor>:none", "--append-karg", "nameserver=<nameserver>", "--append-karg", "rd.znet=qeth,<network adaptor range>,layer2=1", "--append-karg", "rd.<storage type>=<storage>" ]'
----

> - For network type as ROCE:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- For network types such as `ROCE`, enter the following command:
```

+

> [source,terminal]

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
[source,bash]
```
